
Below is a brief guide on helping you make a character. It's easy- I hope you enjoy! 

You can make your character on a blank piece of paper, a document, a Canvas file in this Obsidian Vault, or on a classic SWD6 Template sheet.

If you want to build a **Droid** as your character, look to section **7. Droid Characters** below. 

---
**1.** **Species**

Choose a species. It can be anything that interests you in the 'Sentient Species' folder in the sidebar- there are hundreds to choose from, with many different statistics, lore, and special abilities! If you'd like to see an index of Species, see [[Sentient Species]]. The entry on the species you choose will have important information for later.


---
**2. Attributes**
Attributes are your character's innate aptitude for certain pursuits. There are six base attributes:

##### **Dexterity** 
-Your character's eye-hand coordination and agility.
##### **Knowledge** 
-Your character's knowledge of the galaxy.
##### **Mechanical** 
-Your character's "mechanical aptitude," or ability to pilot vehicles, starships and the like.
##### **Perception** 
-Your character's powers of observation, and ability to convince others to do things for them.
##### **Strength** 
-Your character's physical strength, health, and ability to resist damage.
##### **Technical** 
-Your character's "technical aptitude," or ability to fix, repair, and modify all kinds of technology, including starships, droids, and vehicles.


Allocate **18D** across your six attributes. First, put dice in each attribute so you meet the minimum requirements for each attribute as needed for your species. (A human's Dexterity entry reads: **DEXTERITY 2D/4D.** This means you must have a minimum of 2D dice put into Dexterity at character creation.)

Then, allocate the rest of your attribute dice to your choosing. You can't put more than your species' maximum listing in any attribute (Following the example above, a human can't have more than **4D** in Dexterity.)

If it has been agreed that your character can be Force Sensitive, they may begin with Attribute dice allocated to the **Force** attribute. Attach the [[Force Sensitivity Annex]] to your character sheet if using the built in Obsidian files, or write it down if using other means. Your character will then have the attribute:

##### Force
-Your character's connection to the force, ability to control it in oneself, sense, and alter the world around them. 

A non-force sensitive character can become force sensitive later for a cost of 20 Character Points. Advancing the Force attribute or Force skills of Control, Sense, and Alter cost 3x the character points of a normal attribute or skill. 

---
**3. Skills**
After you've allocated your attribute dice, you must be wondering, "Can my character get better at anything?"

That is where skills come in. Skills are things your character can learn and get better at over time. Each template has several skills listed under each attribute. The skills are explained in "[[Attributes and Skills]]" and are broken down by skill action in the "Skill Actions" folder in the sidebar.

A beginning character has **7D** to spend on skills; you can add **1D** or **2D** to any of the skills shown on the template(That means you can't add more than 2D to any skill during character creation). All the skills listed beneath a given attribute begin with that attribute's die code.

There are two special catagories of skills that have a different cost at character creation and when upgrading later:

> Advanced Skills
> If there is an "(A)" listed in front of a skill name, it's an "advanced skill". Advanced skills demand years of disciplined study to master and cannot be attempted unless a character has the skill. Some examples include (A) medicine, (A) space transports engineering, (A) starfighter engineering and (A) droid engineering.
> A character may have an advanced skill listed on the template. If your character meets the "prerequisite skills" requirement, you may put beginning skill dice in the advanced skill. Check the skill's description in the "Attributes and Skills" chapter to find the prerequisite skills; you will probably have to put some of your beginning skill dice in the prerequisite skills.

> Specializations
> You can specialize in a narrow task for cheap, but your general skill will suffer. If you purchase a Specialization, choose a skill you have at least 1D in. Add a new skill to your character sheet to reflect this narrow focus- the new skill will not increase when upgrading the original.
>For example, one could take a specialization in your | **Survival** **2D** | for | **Survival : arctic** **3D** | in order to reflect your training in cold environs. Upgrading | **Survival** | to **3D** would make it equal to | **Survival : arctic** | , while upgrading | **Survival : arctic** | to **4D** would leave your base | **Survival** | behind at **4D**.
You can spend **1D** of your character's beginning skill dice to get **three** specializations; add 1D to each specialization.


---
**4. Credits and Equipment**
If you are using a template, starting equipment will be listed. If you are creating your own character from scratch, work together to determine reasonable starting equipment in line with what other characters may have. 

| Finances | Credits  |
| -------- | -------- |
| Wealthy  | 2D x 400 |
| Average  | 2D x 250 |
| Poor     | 2D x 100 |

---
**5. Character Points and Progression**

All characters start the game with **5 Character Points (5 CP)**.

It costs as many Character Points as the number before the "D" to improve a skill's die code by one pip. 

> (Increasing a skill from a "+2" to the next higher die - from 3D+2 to 4D for example - counts as a one pip improvement.)

A character can only improve a skill one pip between each adventure, although the character may improve more than one skill between adventures.

> (Ex: Thannik has a search skill of 4D. It costs 4 Character Points to improve search to 4D+1. At the end of an adventure, Thannik can improve his search skill from 4D to 4D+1 for four Character Points and his space transports skill from 4D+2 to 5D for four Character Points.

However, Thannik can't improve his search skill from 4D to 4D+2 in one jump because that would mean improving the skill more than one pip.)

> For specializations, the Character Point cost is one-half the number before the "D" (rounded up). Specializations are separate skills. If a character improves the basic skill, the specialization doesn't improve; if the specialization is improved, the basic skill doesn't go up.


---
**6. Contacts**
Your character knows others around the galaxy who pursue similar skills as them. 

For each full D you have in a skill, you know one contact of that skill level. For example, with 2D *sneak*, you'll be guaranteed to know two contacts: one individual with 1D *sneak* and one moderately more inconspicuous fellow with 2D *sneak*. You can ask to know more talented individuals than your skill level, but this always comes at a cost of reliability: the experts may be hard to track down, out of touch, or completely untrustworthy. 


---
**7. Droid Characters**

Droids use the same rules above, except they may allocate their attribute and skill dice differently. If you are creating a custom droid character, you receive **25D** to be allocated to skills **and** attributes (and attachments). This is different than the normal organic starting character, who receives 18D in attributes and 7D in skills.

If you would like to repurpose an existing model of droid for your character, count up the number of **attribute** and **skill** dice in its data entry. If it is more than 25D, you'll have to make sacrifices to bring the total down to the fair maximum for beginning characters- think of roleplay reasons why you might be altered from the base model. If your total is less than 25D, you may spend the remaining D on **Skills** and **Attatchments** (not attributes).  

Droid characters

See Droids p. 367 SWD6 2e REUP 

---












































**8. Progression**

Progressing:

made up shtif

CPs

1-3 CPs for story moments and RP, 1-2 CP if enough happiness is met

Happiness factors must exceed unhappiness in balance.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bIbLPDlbW-Q
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ayqcWOK7-eE
