


**Rounds**
Whenever time passing is important or you are engaged in opposition, the game will have Rounds. Rounds are a cinematic and abstract unspecified amount of time in which you can take **Actions** to pursue your goals, alternating between your turn and your opponents turns.

**Actions per round**
You can take one action per round for free. At the beginning of your turn you can declare you will take two or more actions- for each action above one that you take, **ALL** actions you take that round will suffer a **-1D** penalty. Taking multiple actions will quickly make it so your character is likely to fail at things they aren't normally good at, but as you grow more experienced taking multiple actions per turn will be how you gain the upper hand in situations.

**Wild Dice**
Whenever you make a skill roll, chose one of your D6s to be a different color. This is your **Wild Dice**, reflecting fate, the force, or just dumb luck. The **Wild Dice** gives bonuses when you roll a 6, and penalties when you roll a 1. 

On a 6, the Wild Dice "explodes", allowing you to roll that single dice again and add both numbers to your total. If you're so fortunate as to roll a 6 on the bonus roll, you get a *third* roll, and can keep going on and on and on.

On a 1, the Wild Dice can do three things. It could result in an unwelcome narrative consequence that opposes your overall course of action, it could result in a -1D penalty to your total, or it could do absolutely nothing at all. It's storyteller discretion on which, but remember all to be graceful. 

The Wild Dice has a special function during **Duels**. 

**Difficulty Rolls**
3-5 for Very Easy
6-10 for Easy 
11-15 for Moderate
16-20 for Difficulty
21-30 for Very Difficult
31+ for Heroic

**Haste**

**Quickdraw**

**Combat Rounds**

**Getting Hit**
When a character is hit, they roll Strength against the incoming damage ....

If a character is hit and they successfully soak the damage using their Strength attribute, they are **stunned** for one round but do not take a wound. 
If the damage can be soaked entirely by armor or shields, the character is **not** stunned. 

**Chases**
For Starship chases, your base speed will be your ship's D-code. Each turn you roll Piloting against the difficulty number of hazardous obstacles in your path, with successes providing a bonus of Dice to your speed roll, and failures applying a penalty of dice. 

**Learning Force Powers**
Force powers come at a cost of Character Points and a cost of enlightenment. In order to wield a power beyond your instinctual starting powers, you must undergo a journey of discovery that allows you to understand the mysteries of the force. This will require dedicated thought on an individual level. 

**Using Force and Dark Side Points**

-*Force Fatigue*
 ~~Failing a force power gives a "pip" of fatigue, and some force powers (force lightning, etc) give an automatic pip. When you accumulate 3 pips - that counts as 1D difficulty for a stamina check. you have to make a check each time 1D accumulates.~~

**No Starting Dark Side**

**Contacts and Connections based on your Skills**
You will have 1 contact / connection for each D in a skill you possess. This contact is someone you can trust, who has a value in the skill equal to the count of Dice that let you know them. For example, with 2D *sneak*, you'll be guaranteed to know two contacts: one individual with 1D *sneak* and one moderately more inconspicuous fellow with 2D *sneak*. You can ask to know more talented individuals than your skill level, but this always comes at a cost of reliability: the experts may be hard to track down, out of touch, or completely untrustworthy. 

