
DEXTERITY SKILLS
Dexterity is a measure of your character's eye-hand coordi-
nation and balance. Characters with a high Dexterity are good
shots, can dodge blaster bolts, can walk balance beams with
ease and even make good pick-pockets. Characters with a low
Dexterity are clumsy.

Using Ranged Combat Skills
Dexterity has several "ranged combat" skills covering
weapons that can be used to attack someone from a distance.
These skills all work the same way.
When a character shoots a ranged weapon, the difficulty
number is based on the range to the target: the further away a
target, the higher the difficulty number. (Each weapon has dif-
ferent ranges; weapons are described in the chapter on
"Weapons &t Equipment.")

If your skill roll is equal to or greater than the difficulty number, your attack hits.

It's not always that simple, however - the target might dodge (that's a "reaction skill") or might be partially protected by cover. This is explained in the chapter on "Combat and Injuries."

The "ranged combat" skills include: archaic guns, artillery, blaster, blaster artillery, bowcaster, bows, firearms, flamethrower, grenade, missile weapons, thrown weapons and vehidle blasters. (Starship gunnery and capital ship gunnery are also "ranged combat" skills, but they're covered by Mechanical.)

**Using Melee Combat Skills**
Dexterity has "melee combat" skills which cover any type of hand-to-hand attack. They're melee combat and lightsaber; brawling - a Strength skill - is also a melee combat skill. Each melee weapon has a different difficulty number. (The weapons are described in the chapter on "Weapons &t Equip- ment.") If the character rolls equal to or higher than the diffi- culty number, the attack hits.

Of course, just like ranged combat skills, it's not always that simple. The target might parry the attack using a "reaction skill" or might be partially protected by cover. This is explained in the chapter on "Combat &t Injuries."

 **Using Reaction Skills**
Dexterity covers several "reaction skills," which are used to avoid or block attacks. When your character is attacked and you roll a "reaction skill," the attacker's difficulty number is now whatever you roll.

> There are several reaction skills: acrobatics, brawling parry, dodge and melee parry. Lightsaber can also be used to parry attacks. The many vehicle operation and starship piloting skills - they're all under Mechanical - can also be used for "vehicle dodges" to avoid enemy fire.


> **Full Reaction**
> A reaction skill can also be used for a "full reaction." The character rolls the reaction skill - acrobatics, brawling parry, dodge, melee parry, parries with a lightsaber, or a vehicle or starship dodge - and adds the roll to the attackers' difficulty numbers. However, a character making a full reaction can't do anything else in the round.

The chapter on "Combat and Injuries" fully explains how to
use reaction skills.



Acrobatics
Time Taken: One round.
Specializations: Type of acrobatics used, form or style
diving, trapeze, tumbling.
Characters with this skill can tumble, leap, and roll to
avoid falling damage, to entertain an audience, or to sur-
prise an opponent in combat.

Using acrobatics can improve many of a character's climb-
ingljumping and running attempts. The gamemaster determines
the difficulty of the acrobatics stunt. One-half of the difference
(rounded up) between the difficulty and the acrobatics roll is
added to the complementary skill. The acrobatics attempt and
the dimbing/jumping or running try must be done on the same
turn, incurring a multiple action penalty.
Instead of adding a modifier to the running or swim difficul-
ty for particularly challenging obstacle courses, the gamemaster
may have the hero make an acrobatics roll in addition to a run-
ning or swim roll.
Acrobatics can make a character appear more intimidating.
The player may add one-half of the difference (rounded up)
between the difficulty and the successful acrobatics roll to their
intimidation attempt. The intimidating attempt may be made
on the same turn as the acrobatics roll or on the next round.